Integrating Gallery2 with Drupal

Submitted by Quinn on Mon, 02/08/2010 - 13:35
I have successfully implemented Gallery2 multi-site with a Drupal multi-site setup. It took a bit of work so I'm sharing the overall process here.

A good place to start is "Drupal integration documentation": http://codex.gallery2.org/Integration:Drupal

Install Gallery2.

Upload and unpack the gallery software to your server.

Install the Gallery module in Drupal. http://drupal.org/project/gallery

(Obviously, change "DOMAIN.com" below to your specific domain as per your Drupal instance.)

Start by browsing to gallery installer page

Click "Begin installation"
Copy authentication key to clipboard
If login.txt already exists, delete the authentication key already present.
Paste authentication key into the new file you created. Save and exit.
Go back to browser. Continue through to Step 3.
Choose "Multisite installation"
You need to choose a system path and a URL for the new gallery install. The gallery instance will be installed in a folder galled gallery2. We place this directory above the drupal directory. We will make a symlink from our Drupal directory a bit later.

The URL should be the complete path to the "stand-alone" version of the gallery (The gallery will be accessible as a stand-alone script and also as an embedded Drupal module. More on that later.)

Public URL is the URL for the "stand-alone" version of our gallery. So, example:

http://DOMAIN.com/sites/DOMAIN.com/gallery2/main.php

(Remember, this site is in our Drupal multi-site setup so we have the "sites" path in our URL.)

Create the symlink from our gallery2 installation in our Drupal root.
Add system path and public URL values to the installer form at step 3. Continue.
Step 4, we create the storage directory for gallery. This needs to be a non-web-accessbile directory. We put this above the site's Drupal directory, and parallel with their "gallery2" directory.
Continue to step 5.
Step 5, we set up the database.
The site should already have a database because Drupal has already been installed. We will add the gallery2 tables to our database. You will need the site's DB username, password and database name.

It's important to have the table prefixes to avoid intermixing the gallery2 database tables with Drupal's database tables.

Continue to step 6.
Step 6, we set up the gallery2 administrator. We can re-use the Drupal root user (user id 1) values. The admin email address should be the same as the "Site Email" address that Drupal uses.
Click "Create" then "Continue".
Continue to step 8.
Continue to step 9.
Step 9, we set up our gallery2 plug-ins.
UN-CHECK the following: URL Rewrite

Gallery2's URL re-write conflicts with the way the multi-site Drupal codebase is configured. We may work on a fix for this in the future.

Click "Activate Selected Modules".
Continue to step 10.
Continue to step 11.
Gallery has now been installed as a stand-alone. Click "Go to my gallery!" to see it.

Set up a directory we can FTP files to (image import)
Enable Drupal integration modules

Visit http://DOMAIN.com/admin/build/modules

Enable all "Gallery2" modules
Visit http://DOMAIN.com/admin/settings/gallery

Input path and file system settings:
Gallery2 URI: /sites/DOMAIN.com/gallery2/
Gallery Base: gallery

Skip installation of Clean URLs.
Sync users/groups.
Set up Drupal permissions.

Visit http://DOMAIN.com/admin/user/permissions

Set as appropriate. Most likely you want everyone to be able to access the gallery but only administrators to be able to administrate the settings.

Set up blocks

You will probably want to disable and right-hand blocks on your public theme as the gallery normally needs a large amount of horizontal space.

Visit http://DOMAIN.com/admin/build/block

"Configure" each right-hand block. Set "Show on every page except the listed pages" and enter "gallery" in the text field. Thats "star gallery star".
Enable "Gallery Navigation" block in your left sidebar region (typically). You probably want to show this block only on gallery pages (path "gallery", exclude quotes)

Site-specific gallery configuration

Visit http://DOMAIN.com/gallery

Change the "This is the main page of your Gallery" string: Browse to top-level gallery (main gallery container) and click Edit Gallery. Change the "Description" to something meaningful (ie, "Welcome to the DOMAIN.com image gallery").

More stuff you might want to do.

Assign "frames" for your images

Create/modify some user groups for administration (so you don't have to administer as the Gallery Admin root user)

Create some galleries

Import some images into your new galleries via FTP, upload a ZIP file containing images, or grab images from a remote URL.

Add menu item into your navigation to http://DOMAIN.com/gallery

Note: This blog post originally appeared as a Drupal.org forum comment in slightly modified form.